# mind-rate
A tool for psychological research using experience sampling method

Experience Sampling Method(ESM):

	"The experience sampling method, also referred to as a daily diary method, or ecological momentary assessment (EMA), is a research methodology that asks participants to stop at certain times and make notes of their experience in real time. The point is for them to record temporal things like feelings while in the moment (right then, not later; right there, not elsewhere). They can be given a journal with many identical pages. Each page can have a psychometric scale, open-ended questions, or anything else used to assess their condition in that place and time. Online ESM studies can also operate fully automatized.[1] The experience sampling method was developed by Larson and Csikszentmihalyi.[2]

There are different ways to signal participants when to take notes in their journal or fill-out a questionnaire,[3] like using preprogrammed stopwatches. An observer can have an identically programmed stopwatch, so the observer can record specific events as the participants are recording their feelings or other behaviors. It is best to avoid letting subjects know in advance when they will record their feelings, so they can't anticipate the event, and will just be "acting naturally" when they stop and take notes on their current condition. Conversely, some statistical techniques require roughly equidistant time intervals, which has the limitation that assessments can be anticipated. Validity in these studies comes from repetition, so you can look for patterns, like participants reporting greater happiness right after meals. These correlations can then be tested by other means for cause and effect, such as vector autoregression,[4] since ESM just shows correlation."                                                              
																												  ---Wikipedia
